---
layout: post
title: Flex Day 1
categories: cpnt265
---

## Morning reflection
### Housekeeping
- CPNT 200 marks released.
- Check your final CPNT 262 and 200 marks before they are entered.
- Showcase cards
    - Shivani
- Presentation bookings
    - Vitaly
    - Ed: Inkwell presentation and Figma video
- Trophy icons
    - Isha
- Stage Crew
    - Swapna
    - Ash
    - OBS nerds
        - Mike
        - Norvillie
        - Dustin

---

## 1. Contracting as a developer
### Materials
- Cheatsheet: [Web and Software Contracting](https://sait-wbdv.github.io/winter-2021/cheatsheets/business/contracting/)

---

## 2. Lean Canvas
### Materials
- Cheatsheet: [Agile Methodologies]({{site.baseurl}}/cheatsheets/business/agile)
- Article: [Lean Methodology](http://theleanstartup.com/principles) 
- Video: [Capture Your Business Model in 20 Minutes with Lean Canvas](https://youtu.be/7o8uYdUaFR4)
- Example: [Lean Canvas Intro - Uber](https://youtu.be/pvIN9STpzCQ)
- Tools:
    - [Leanstack](https://leanstack.com) 
    - [Canvanizer](https://canvanizer.com)

        **Warning**: Don't export your canvas as a PDF or add collaborators. This will lock your canvas so you can't make changes. That's how they get ya.
        {: .notice .notice--warning}

### Key Takeaways
- Key agile principle: Don't build a product nobody wants.
- Build an MVP with one or two features and get it in front of early adopters. The missing feature they complain most about should be your focus for the next iteration.
- Lean canvas method:
    1. Document your _Plan A_ with a Lean Canvas
    2. Identify the riskiest parts of your plan
    3. Empirically test your plan
- Recommended order to complete a lean canvas:
    1. Customer segment: Target customers and users.
    2. Top 3 Problems experienced by your segment.
    3. Unique Value Proposition: A single, clear compelling message that turns an unaware visitor into an interested prospect (elevator pitch).
    4. Solution: Outline a possible solution for each problem.
    5. Customer channels: List your path to customers.
    6. Revenue streams: List your sources of revenue.
    7. Cost structure: List your fixed and variable costs.
    8. Key Metrics: List the key numbers that tell you how your business is doing.
    9. Unfair Advantage: Something that can't be easily copied or bought.

---

## 3. E-business and E-commerce
### Materials
- Cheatsheet: [E-business and E-commerce](https://sait-wbdv.github.io/winter-2021/cheatsheets/business/ecommerce/)

### Key Takeaways
- The current leaders in online shopping carts are Shopify and Etsy.
  - Shopify: 
    - Great if you want you own stand-alone store.
    - Ties into many handy services such as fulfillment companies and drop-shippers.
  - Etsy:
    - Great if you want to plug into an existing eco-system of customers.
    - Caters to creators who make hand-made goods.
  - WooCommerce
    - A popular shopping cart plugin for Wordpress
    - Integrates nicely with Elementor (paid version)

---